[Documentation] Program State (#976)
AleoHQ/aleo: docs/Guide/08_public_program_state.md

An example of a mapping usage is the `account` mapping in the `credits.aleo` program.
```
mapping account:
    key owner as address.public;
    value microcredits as u64.public;
```

The `account` mapping is used to store public credit balances on the Aleo network. It takes a public address as a key
and a public `u64` value representing the number of microcredits owned by the address.

Mappings within programs are identified by the `mapping` identifier. Any program where this keyword appears contains an
on-chain mapping. An example of a program that uses a mapping is shown below:
```
program player_mapping_example.aleo

// The mapping identifier representing a score
mapping score:
    key player as address.public;
    value score as u64.public;

// The update score function
function update_score:
    input r0 as address.public;
    input r1 as u64.public;

// The finalize code block will be executed by Aleo network nodes.
// When it runs it will update the value of the mapping.
finalize update_score:
    input r0 as address.public;
    input r1 as u64.public;
    get.or_use score[r0] 0u64 into r2;
    add r1 r2 into r3;
    set r3 into account[r0];

> ```

Reviewer: Can you update to this to the new async syntax? The program editor on provable.tools is a good place to check if it's valid.

Author: done

const creditsMappings = networkClient.getMappings("credits.aleo");
assert(creditsMappings === ["account"]);

const publicCredits = networkClient.getMapping("credits.aleo", "[a valid aleo account with zero balance]");
assert(publicCredits === "0u64");
```

### Initializing & updating mappings
Updating mappings is done by executing a program function on the Aleo network which has a finalize block that updates the
program's mapping. For instance, the `transfer_public` function in the `credits.aleo` program updates the `account`
mapping (and thus a user's balance) when called.

```
// The public interface called by users
function transfer_public:
    input r0 as address.public;
    input r1 as u64.public;
    finalize self.caller r0 r1;

// The finalize block run by nodes on the Aleo network which update a user's public balance
finalize transfer_public:
    input r0 as address.public;
    input r1 as address.public;
    input r2 as u64.public;
    get.or_use account[r0] 0u64 into r3;
    sub r3 r2 into r4;
    set r4 into account[r0];
    get.or_use account[r1] 0u64 into r5;
    add r5 r2 into r6;
    set r6 into account[r1];

> ```

Reviewer: Can we update this code and the terminology to the new async paradigm, you can use the sources for transfer_public function from [credits.aleo](https://explorer.provable.com/program/credits.aleo).

Author: done

From the perspective of the caller of the API, this is as simple as executing a normal Aleo function. Given the inputs

> to a function with a finalize scope that updates a mapping are valid, the mapping will either be intialized or updated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to a function with an async scope that updates a mapping are valid, the mapping will either be initialized or updated
```

Author: done

> by the Aleo network. All that the user of the SDK must do is ensure that the inputs to the function are valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by the Aleo Validators when a new block is added. All that the user of the SDK must do is ensure that the inputs to the function are valid.
```

Author: done
